- Define risk #card
	- Cost x Likelihood
		- ||**Cheap** | **Expensive**  |
		  |**Unlikely**|Accept|Transfer|
		  |**Likely**|Reduce|Avoid|
- How must security be incorporated from the start? #card
	- Complex and subtle
		- Use existing standards
	- Design an Architecture
		- Follow a standard
		- Security is a moving target
- What are the two streams of secure architecture? #card
	- Architecture design
	- Technology management
- How do the two streams of secure architecture behave in the first level of secure architecture maturity? #card
	- Here we are adding security into the design of the software architecture
	- Architecture design
		- Teams are trained to use the basic design principles
	- Technology Management
		- Elicit technology, frameworks and integrations into the solution to identify risk
- How do the two streams of secure architecture behave in the second level of maturity? #card
	- Designing process here is moving towards known secure architecture and defaults
	- Architecture design
		- Establish common design patterns and security solutions for adaptation
	- Technology Management
		- Standardise technology and frameworks for use throughout different applications
- How do the two streams of secure architecture behave in the third level of maturity? #card
	- Here we are formally controlling the process and validating utilisation of secure components
	- Architecture design
		- Reference architectures are used and evaluated to be adopted for our use case
	- Technology management
		- Impose the use of software technologies on all development
- What are man in the middle attacks? #card
	- An attack where the attacker is able to read and modify messages between entities. They are able to observe and intercept messages between the two
- How can man in the middle attacks be mitigated? #card
	- The use of encryption
		- Although eventually public key encryption will be breakable
		- Use post quantum encryption
- What is XSS? #card
	- Cross site scripting
		- Where attacker manipulates content that the user loads
- How can XSS attacks be mitigated? #card
	- Sanitise
	- Whitelist
- What is CSRF? #card
	- Cross site request forging
		- An attacker where user cookies are used to fake identity to server
- How can CSRF be mitigated? #card
	- Use of unpredictable, unique session tokens
- What is SSRF? #card
	- Attacker misdirects a response to an incorrect destination
- How can SSRF be mitigated? #card
	- Input validation
	- DNS hardening
- What is SQL injection? #card
	- Use SQL language to trick the database into executing unacceptable code
- How can SQL injections be mitigated? #card
	- ORM
	- Parameterised queries
- *Note that OS, Code and command injections are the same but escaping inputs is necessary to prevent inline injections
- Describe an OOBR/W Attack #card
	- When you copy input to a buffer in memory, but dont check input size.
		- This can let the copy override data outside of where you expect it and if neighbouring data is the return address, then the return address can be changed and maliciously rerouted
	- How can OOBR/W attacks be mitigated? #card
		- Sanitise input
		- Use secure languages
		- Harden compiler
- What are ways that authentication can be mishandled? #card
	- hardcoding
	- user-id in urls
	- no privilege gating
- What is a path transversal attack? #card
	- Modifying the URL path to access other files
	- How can path transversal be mitigated? #card
		- Disallow file access services
		- Normalise, sanitise and whitelist paths
- What is a use after free attack? #card
	- When the developer frees memory, does not tell the program and an attacker puts something else in that memory
- How can dangerous file uploads be mitigated? #card
	- Sanitise filenames
	- Whitelist filetypes
	- Disallow overwrites
	- Limit upload sizes
	- Use database, not file system
- How to mitigate invalid inputs #card
	- Use known validators
	- Whitelist
	- Unicode is insecure
		- Normalise it
		- Avoid regex
		- Have a whitelist of unicode numbers
- How to mitigate Null pointers? #card
	- Sanitise
	- RAII
- How to migitage int overflows? #card
	- Sanitize
	- Enable bounds checking
	- replace char with number types
	- Safe languages
- How to mitigate DoS attacks? #card
	- Insurance and protections
- What is AI? #card
	- Exact definition
		- Reasoning
			- Boolean logic
				- What is exact boolean logic? #card
					- Models problems as mathematical models
				- What is NP? #card
					- Non-deterministic polynomial time
					- What is NP-hard #card
						- Problems that
			- Genetic algorithms
		- Optimization
	- Fuzzy
		- Perceptions
			- Neural networks
	- Knowledge
		- Knowledge base
		- Ontologies
			- Human curated representations of concepts
			- Manually constructed
- What is reasoning? #card
	- Using a mathematically exact model to prove that a solution is solvable or not
- What are SAT problems? #card
	- Problems in which you can use booleans to find a possible solution
- What are the three approaches to reasoning? #card
	- Conflict derived Clause learning (complete)
	- Look ahead (complete)
	- Local search
- What is perception? #card
	- The use of matrix fused multiply and add functions to give the illusion of knowledge
	- Scale O(n^2) in memory and O(n^3) in operations
- What are the characteristics of an architecture centred approach? #card
	- Emphasis placed on design
	- Agile can lead to incomplete understanding of architectural information
	- Define system wide architectural decisions
		- Such as Objects
		- Arch patterns
		- APIs
	- Define granular tactical decisions
- What informs an architectural design? #card
	- Requirements
	- Analysis
- What is software architecture? #card
	- Big picture ideas:
		- Motivations
		- Contraints
		- Organization
		- Patterns
		- Responsibilities
		- Connections
	- Interested in meeting non-functional requirements
- What are the goals of architecture patterns? #card
	- Enhance usability of OOP code
		- Recurring issues are solved
		- Working patterns are already in existence
		- Helps productivity
		- Allows for flexibility as everything is clearly related
- What are the benefits of architecture design patterns? #card
	- Encapsulated design pattern easier to communicate
	- Commonality amongst developers
	- Reusable
	- Allow for set design modifications
- Define an architecture pattern #card
	- a set of design decisions that are applicable to recurring design problems and parameterised to account for different contexts in which the problem appears
- Define Architecture model #card
	- An artefact documenting the some or all the architectural design decisions about a system
- Define an Architecture Visualisation #card
	- A way of depicting some or all of the architectural design decisions about a system or stakeholder
- Define Architecure view #card
	- A subset of related architectural design decisions
- What is the MVC Pattern? #card
	- divide the presentation and interaction of data
		- Model: data and operations
		- View: How to display model
		- Controller: Functions that can mutate and interact with the model
	- Pros:
		- Decouples data and other stuff
		- Flexible
	- Cons:
		- Code complexity
- What is the Layered architecture pattern? #card
	- Organise systems into layers that pass information between them
	- Pros:
		- Clean separation of concerns
	- Cons
		- Difficult to get the separation as clean as necessary
- What is the repository pattern? #card
	- Store data in a central repo that wraps the data access
	- Pros:
		- Clean separation
		- API can be simple
	- Cons:
		- Single point of failure
- What is the client server pattern #card
	- Functionality is divided into services which get placed in different servers
	- Pros:
		- Distributed servers
	- Cons:
		- Unpredictable
		- Crucial services are left alone
- What is the pipe and filter pattern #card
	- Create filters responsible for one job only
	- Pros:
		- Easy to understand
		- Sep of concerns
		- Could be parallelised easily
	- Cons
		- Data transfer needs standardisation
		- Overhead
- What are the key aims for architectural patterns? #card
	- Minimise coupling and maximise cohesion
