- Categories to distinguish Project vs Process #card
  card-last-interval:: -1
  card-repeats:: 1
  card-ease-factor:: 2.5
  card-next-schedule:: 2025-11-02T22:00:00.000Z
  card-last-reviewed:: 2025-11-02T10:45:08.371Z
  card-last-score:: 1
	- Nature #card
		- Process - routine
		- Project - ad hoc
	- Duration #card
		- Project - continuous
		- Process - fixed start + end
	- Input/outputs/tasks #card
		- Project - Unknown
		- Process - Well Documented
	- Success #card
		- Project - ~ 50%
		- Process - > 99%
	- Emphasis #card
		- Project - Created from scratch
		- Process - Small improvements
	- Control #card
		- Process - Fixed measurements
		- Project - Outcome / Desires
	- Measurement #card
		- Process - Efficiency/cost
		- Project - Meeting of requirements/desires
- 3 Metrics for a Projects success #card
	- Time
	- Budget
	- Quality (on requirements)
- Project Considerations #card
	- Why does Systems Development require careful project management? #card
		- Dependencies on other software
		- Specific skillsets required ad specific milestones
		- Activities must follow a specific sequence
	- Types of problems (Brooks) #card
		- What causes Essential Problems #card
			- Requirements
			- Scope
		- What causes Accidental Problems? #card
			- Process
			- Tools
			- People
		- Complexity *is* the problem
		- What causes Inefficiency? #card
			- Overly complex solution to simple problems
			- Simple *faulty* solutions to complex problems
			- Complex *fault* solutions to complex problems
- How does Djikstra manage complexity? #card
	- How do we Minimise essential complexity? #card
		- Problem Decomposition: Break project into small parts
		- Loose coupling
		- Clean interfaces
	- How do we Keep accidental complexity from evolving? #card
		- Tools
		- Frameworks
	- All other goals are secondary to managing complexity
- Good design properties #card
	- Minimal complexity
	- Easy to maintain
	- Loose coupling
	- Extendable
	- Resuable
	- High fan-in: Reuse low-level classes often
	- Low fan-out: High leve classes use fewer low level ones
	- Leaness: Make everything as simple as possible, not simpler
	- Stratified
	- Standardised
- What are the 5 levels of design? #card
	- Project
		- Describe Design level 1 #card
			- Requirements
			- Scope
			- Feasibility
			- Architecture
		- Fulfil requirements #card
			- Functions and features to be delivered to users
			- Data input and output
			- Content presented to users as a consequence of using the software
			- Performance, constraints, interfaces and reliability that bound the system
		- How do we define scope? #card
			- Narrative descriptions
			- Use cases
		- How do we derive goals for the scope of a project? #card
			- Needs and expectations of the stakeholders
			- Prioritise true needs creating real benefits
		- How do we determine feasibility? #card
			- Determine resources
				- People
				- Hardware
				- Tools required
				- Reusable components
		- Why do we determine requirements? #card
			- Reduce risk of failure
			- Efficiency
		- Why should requirements be explicit? #card
			- Clients drive functionality
			- Easier to review and measure by the client
			- Ambiguous requirements => Change => Cost
		- What are the 4 Requirement checklists? #card
			- Functional #card
				- Inputs
				- Outputs
				- File formats
				- Hardware + software interfaces
				- External interfaces
				- User tasks
				- User interface
				- Data in and out of user tasks
			- Quality #card
				- Response time
				- Performance
				- Security
				- Reliability
				- Resource
				- Maintainability
			- Completeness #card
				- Document added/unplanned changes
				- Fulfill requirements?
				- Are all requirements feasible?
			- Correctness #card
				- Correct language/syntax
				- Conflicting requirements
				- Acceptable tradeoffs
				- Detailed documentation
				- Understandable
				- Relevant
				- Testable
				- Adaptable
		- What are the components of an Architecture? #card
			- Language
			- Subsystems
			- Classes
			- Data design
			- Business rules
			- User Interfaces
			- Resources
			- Security
			- Performance
			- Scalability
			- I/O
			- Error processing
			- Frameworks
	- Subsystems
		- How do we plan subsystems? #card
			- Self contained units
			- Assign to different people
		- Framworks
		- Interactions
			- Low vs high fanout
	- Classes/packages
	- Methods/data
		- Which paradigms associate with methods and data? #card
			- Methods: OOP
			- Data: DOD
		- What do we consider when designing classes and routines? #card
			- What can be done to each object?
			- Interactions with other object
			- Publicity
			- Public interface
	- Source code
		- What is considered when coding? #card
			- Requrirements
			- Naming conv
			- Documentation
			- Design patterns
			- Parameters
			- Design assertions
				- Pre/post conditions
			- Implementation
- Smart Goals #card
	- Specific
	- Measurable
	- Agreed upon
	- Realistic
	- Time bound
- What conditions should deliverables meet? #card
	- Verifiable and specific
	- Stakeholder
	- Due Time
	- Has Quality standards
- How are schedules decided? #card
	- Effort (time) required
	- Resources needed
	- Relies on deliverables
	- If schedule is unrealistic:
		- Delay deadline
		- Add resources
		- Reduce scope
- Describe the Mythical Man Myth #card
	- The fallacy that assumes that adding more resources reduced completion time
		- When in fact the people may add complexity as training and communication overhead may increase
- What are the 3 other supporting plans of a project? #card
	- Human resources plan
		- What is in an HR plan? #card
			- Plan key staff and organisations
			- Describe the number of people and skillsets needed
	- Communications plan
		- What is in a Communications plan? #card
			- Who needs to be updated?
			- How do we inform them?
				- Frequency
				- Method
	- Risk Management plan
		- How do we manage risks in a risk management plan? #card
			- A: Accept
			- R: Reduce
			- T: Transfer
			- A: Avoid
- What are the five Project Management activities? (5 Ps) #card
	- People
	- Price
	- Product
	- Process
	- Project
- What are the 5 roles/duties of a project? #card
	- Project Manager
	- Systems Analyst
	- User Interface Designer
	- Architect
	- Specialists
	- Documentation
- How does individual vs team success differ? #card
	- Individual success
		- Intrest
		- Experience
	- Team success
		- Communication ability
		- Group interaction
	- Management skills
- What are the 3 metrics used in project success? #card
	- Activity: Tasks that take time
		- What are the 3 parts of an activity? #card
			- Duration
			- Due Date
			- Precursor
	- Milestone: Completion of an Activity
		- What components make up a Milestone? #card
			- Recognisable end-product at the end of task
			- Formal, Measurable output
	- Deliverable: A result to be delivered to the customer
- What is the difference between a deliverable and a milestone? #card
	- Deliverable
		- Measurable, tangible outcomes of the project
	- Milestone
		- Identify when a/a group of activities have been completed
- Why do we need software metrics? #card
	- Estimate resources required
	- Measures two levels of a project
		- What are the two metric levels of a Software development project? #card
			- Project - cost/duration
			- Application - size/complexity
- List 5 examples of SMART metrics #card
	- Counts
	- Percentages
	- Sums
	- Averages
	- Ratios
- What are the 4 types of software metrics? #card
	- Process
	- Product
	- Result
		- or Control
	- Predictor
- What metrics are used for Object Oriented Developement? #card
	- Ability to absorb change
		- How is a packages ability to absorb change measured? #card
			- Only concrete classes: Difficult to change
			- No concrete classes: Easy to change
	- Application size
		- How is an application's size measured? #card
			- Number of use cases
			- Number of domain classes
	- Class size
		- How is class size measured? #card
			- Number of attributes
			- Number of operations
			- Size of operations
- Activities of Project Scheduling #card
	- Split work into separate tasks
		- Minimising dependencies
	- Assign work to team members
	- Estimate time needed to complete each task
	- Estimate effort required
- Non-agile project scheduling process #card
	- Identify activities
	- Identify activity dependencies
	- Estimate resources for activities
	- Allocate people to activities
	- Create project charts
- 5 lanes of a kanban board #card
	- Stories/backlog
	- ToDo
	- In Progress
	- Testing
	- Done
- What is network analysis? #card
	- Determines critical path
	- Estimate most likely time estimates
	- Calculate boundaries
- What are the components of Network Analysis? #card
	- Earliest start/finish
	- Latest start/finish
	- Critical path
	- Slack/Float
- What are the 6 steps of Network analysis? #card
	- Label tasks, Indicate dependencies, Put time estimates
	- Forward pass: Earliest start + Earliest finish
		- Current Earliest start = Prev. earliest finish
		- Current Earliest finish = Current earliest start + estimate
	- Backwards pass: Latest start + Latest finish
	- Fill in total float: most delay without affecting the project
		- Latest start - Earliest start
	- Fill in free float: most delay without affecting another task
	- Find critical path
- Why is CPM not always effective? #card
	- Assumes the estimated time is exact
		- Near critical paths are ignored
	- Does not account for human factors causing delays
		- Task switching
		- Parkinstons law
		- Communication overhead
- What is CCPM? #card
	- (Critical chain project management)
	- Critical path management +
		- Resource dependencies
		- Assumes uncertain time
		- Buffers
			- Project buffer: Extra time at the end of project
			- Feeding buffer: Extra time on non-critical paths
			- Resource buffer
- What is a feeding chain? #card
	- All paths feeding into the critical path
- What is a feeding buffer? #card
	- The time at the end of a feeding chain that is used to cushion the critical path from chain delays
	- Directly between end of chain and entrance into critical path
- What is a resource buffer? #card
	- Warns that a resource is needed at a critical path point
- What are the steps to CCPM planning? #card
	- Identify tasks
	- Create optimistic and pessimistic estimates
	- Use estimates to create buffers
	- Assign resources to each task:
		- Schedule: Use optimistic to get resource level of each task
		- Find critical chain
		- Overruns = buffers
	- Execution
		- Planned schedule is unchanged; actual schedule tracks the critical path
		- Hand over tasks as soon as possible
	- Monitor
		- Track buffer status
- Why do we manage risk? #card
	- Uncertainty
	- Anticipation
- How do we manage risk? #card
	- Identify
	- Analyse
	- Rank
- What are the 2 dimensions of risk? #card
	- Probability x Cost
- What are the top 10 risk items? #card
	- Personnel shortfalls
	- Unrealistic schedules/budgets
	- Developing the wrong functions
	- Developing the wrong interfaces
	- Gold plating
	- Changing requirements
	- External reliance in tasks
	- External reliance in components
	- Performance shortfalls
	- Infeasible
	- Competition
	- External interruptions
- 4 Consequences of risk #card
	- Timeline
	- Cost
	- Feasibility
	- Quality
- Steps for risk analysis #card
	- Perception
	- Analysis
	- Strategy
	- Monitor
	- Manage
- Software triangle #card
	- Cheap
	- Good
	- Fast
- How should we approach feature adding? #card
	- Prevent speculative development (gold plating)
- What happens to cost when features are added? #card
	- ROI is eventually not worth the cost
- List common problems in Software development #card
	- Bad communication
	- The crunch
- What is software entropy? #card
	- Measure of disorder (code complexity)
- What are some human factors that affect projects? #card
	- Pointless work
	- Procrastination
	- Gold plating
	- Task switching
- What are the risks of the 2 methodologies? #card
	- Agile
		- Too little preparation
		- Fix: take time to figure things out
	- Waterfall
		- Preparation needs to be perfect
		- Fix: Use experience
- Why is waterfall ineffective for software projects? #card
	- Preceding phases must be perfect
	- Software is infinitely changable
	- Code often requires redesign
- What is a wicked problem? #card
	- Unknown unknown
- What are the benefits of iterative processes? #card
	- Lightweight
	- Parallel development with prototypes
	- Designed for change
- Prototyping cycle #card
	- Requirements
	- Prototype
	- Test
- Rapid Application Development #card
	- Requirements
	- Design
	- Develop
	- Deploy
	- Learn
- Iterative cycle #card
	- Plan
	- Develop
	- Prototype
	- Feedback
	- Develop
- Main differences between iterative and waterfall development #card
	- New versions are frequent
	- Close team members
	- Close to client
	- Hands on development
	- Team becomes a experts
	- Tested directly
	- Reduces risk
	- Value realised sooner