- What is scrum? #card
	- A version of agile
		- An implementation of agile
- What is the main difference between scrum and waterfall? #card
	- Waterfall delays the true understanding of the software system for the end of the process while scrum gains more knowledge earlier on
- Scrum terms: #card
	- Goal: end objective
	- Sprint: fixed time <= a month
	- Planning: todo items + schedule
	- Product: Software to be built
	- Backlog: work items, ordered by priority
	- Team: <= 10, with no hierarchy
	- Scrum master: coach/mentor and liason to management
	- Daily scrum: 15 min meeting to discuss progress
	- Increment: the outcome of a sprint; concrete step taken towards goal
	- Done: quality as agreed, work finished
	- Not done: not finished, quality unacceptable
	- Sprint review: inspect the outcome of a sprint
	- Sprint introspective: how to improve quality and effectiveness
- Scrum teams: #card
	- Scrum master
		- Liaison
		- Quality control
		- Manages obsticles
		- Chair of meetings
		- Not a leader but service
	- Product owner
		- Can be shared across teams
		- Develop project goal
		- plan the backlog
		- communicate with customers
		- manages funding
	- n - 2 Developers
		- Skilled
		- define Quality of "done"
		- does the sprint + planning
		- uses pair programming to train
- What are scrum pigs and chickens? #card
	- Pigs: Fully committed team members
	- Chickens: Customers, users, managers etc.
- What are scrum artifacts? #card
	- They represent either work or value
	- Commitment to ensure it enhances transparency and focus
- What are the commitments of the scrum artifacts? #card
	- Product backlog
		- Emergent, ordered list of items to improve the product
		- What is Product goal #card
			- Future state of product that helps plan sprints
			- They need to be clear, concise
	- Sprint backlog
		- Set of product backlog items to work on right now
		- What is Sprint goal? #card
			- Single objective for a sprint
			- They need to be flexible, and cancelable with one or more increments
	- Increment
		- A concrete step towards a goal
		- Definition of complete
			- Needs to be a formal definition that all devs can commit to
- What are scrum events? #card
	- They are events in a sprint
		- They can only be in a sprint
	- They serve as a formal opportunity to inspect and adapt scrum artifacts
	- They should be the only meetings taking place regularly
- What are the roles of the scrum team? #card
	- Look at requirements
	- Consider available technology
	- Evaluate skill and capabilities
	- Determine how to build functionality
	- What is the best way to do thing?
	- They are the heart of scrum:
		- They do the *iterations* and *creative process*
- How are scrum rules to be defined and governed? #card
	- Scrum master = rule master
	- Everyone needs to know the rules
	- They need to be enforced
	- Ideally changed in the Scrum retrospective meeting
		- Change should come from teams, not management
		- Scrum Master finalised them
- How does the scrum flow start? #card
	- Project starts with a vision
	- Product Owner produces product backlog
		- What should a product backlog contain? #card
			- List of functional and non-functional requirements
			- Ordered by likelihood to generate value
- What are the characteristics of a scrum sprint? #card
	- Last about a month
	- Initiated with a sprint backlog meeting
		- What happens in a sprint backlog meeting? #card
			- Product Owner and team collaborate about what is done for the next sprint
				- Product owner communicates desire
				- Team communicate feasibility
			- less than a working day
	- Sprint flow: #card
		- Product backlog
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Extract sprint backlog from product backlog
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Extract backlog tasks from sprint backlog
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Begin sprint
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Every day has a daily scrum meeting
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Potentially shippable product increment is produces
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
- How are sprint planning meetings organised? #card
	- The sprint planning meeting should input (start with): #card
		- Product backlog
		- Team capabilities
		- Business conditions
		- Technology
		- Current product
	- The sprint planning meeting should produce: #card
		- Sprint goal
		- Sprint backlog
	- The sprint planning meeting involves: #card
		- Product owner
		- Scrum team
		- Scrum master
		- Management
		- Customers
	- There are 2 segments in the sprint planning meeting: #card
		- Select Product backlog
			- How is the first segment of the sprint planning meeting managed? #card
				- Select product backlog that the team believes is feasible
				- Decide on how many backlogs to include in sprint
				- Selection is not done by team, but by the Product Owner
				- Increment is intended to be demonstrated to the Product owners and stakeholders
		- Produce Sprint backlog
			- How is the second segment of the sprint planning meeting managed? #card
				- Team manages their own work
				- Place tasks in the backlog
				- Ask questions to the Product owner
				- plan how the backlog will develop into an icrement
				- Others observe and are there to answer questions
				- A Sprint backlog is produced
- What are the characteristics of a daily scrum meeting? #card
	- Time-boxed to 15 minutes
	- Same place every day
	- Everyone attends
	- What 3 questions does the scrum master ask in a daily scrum meeting? #card
		- What did you do yesterday?
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- What will you do today?
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- What stand in the way of getting work done?
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- What is the purpose of a daily scrum meeting? #card
		- Synchronise
		- Schedule
	- Chickens can attend, but not communicate
- What does it mean when something is time-boxed? #card
	- Max time to do work **excluding artifacts**
	- Max time the stakeholders will wait
- What are the important characteristics of a sprint? #card
	- Team can seek advice, but no unsolicited advice
	- Team is self-managing
	- The Product backlog is frozen
- How can teams change the sprint backlog? #card
	- Consult with Product owner to change backlog
	- If too many items are removed, SM can terminate the sprint
- What happens in the case that a sprint is non-viable? #card
	- Scrum master (at the request of the team or Product owner) can terminate sprint
- When is a sprint non-viable? #card
	- Technology becomes unworkable
	- Business conditions change
	- Team is interfered with
- What are the team responsibilities during a sprint? #card
	- Attend meetings
	- Keep the Sprint backlog up to date
- What are the characteristics of a Sprint review meeting? #card
	- < 4 hours
	- Present increments to Product owners and stakeholders
	- Definition of Done means shippable
	- Do not present the undone work
- What is discussed at a sprint review meeting? #card
	- Sprint goal, sprint backlog, and product backlog completed
	- What went well and what did not
	- Answer question
	- Assess impressions of presentation
	- Rework product backlogs
- What are the characteristics of a sprint review meeting? #card
	- Team, Scrum Master and optionally Product Owner
	- 2 questions answered
		- What went well?
		- What can be improved?
	- Scrum Master summarises answers
	- Team prioritises issues
	- Actionable items added to **high-priority non-function product backlog**
- What are the 3 scrum arifacts? #card
	- Product backlog
	- Sprint Backlog
	- Burndown charts
- What are the characteristics of a Product Backlog? #card
	- List of first cut requrements
	- Product owner can add to backlog and change order
- What are the characteristics of a Sprint Backlog? #card
	- List of todo items for this sprint
	- Each item has a time estimate
	- Constantly updated
		- This allows for early warning to be indicted
- What are the characteristics of a burndown chart? #card
	- Identify the rate that work is being done
	- Graphical representation of a sprint backlog
	- illustrates the work done
	- Demonstrate how close we are to finished
- What can go wrong with scrum? #card
	- Sprints are not all the same length and rhythm can be lost
	- Chickens are communicate at daily meetings when not required to
	- Pigs don't attend meeting
		- Team meetings are difficult to guarantee
	- Specialised job roles may divide team
	- The daily meetings are mismanaged
		- What are the 2 purposes of daily scrum meetings? #card
			- Provide coordination
			- Present commitments in front of everybody
		- Scrum master assigns work, when team should be self-organised
- What are examples of functional software-quality metrics? #card
	- Performant
		- Time
		- Resources
		- Capacity
	- Secure
		- Confidential
		- Integrity
		- non-repudation
		- Accountability
		- Authenticity
		- resistance
	- Reliable
		- Fault free
		- Availability
		- Fault tolerant
		- Recoverable
	- Usable
		- Recognisable
		- Learnable
		- User Error
		- Engagement
		- Inclusive
		- Assistant
		- self-describe
	- Functionally stable/Safe
		- Operations
		- id risks
		- fault safe
		- hazard warnings
		- self-integration
	- Suitable
		- Complete
		- Correct
		- Appropriate
- What are examples of non-functional software-quality metrics? #card
	- Flexible
		- Adaptable
		- Scalable
		- Installable
		- Replaceable
	- Compatible
		- Co-exist
		- Interoperate
	- Maintainable
		- Modular
		- Reusable
		- Analysable
		- Modifiable
		- testable
	- Transferable
	- Information quality
- Quality aspects of information #card
	- Accurate
		- How is accuracy measured? #card
			- Complete
			- Correct
			- Timely
			- Mathamatical accuracy
	- Usable
		- How is usability measured? #card
			- Legible
			- Relevant
			- Understandable
			- Comparable
			- Verified
			- Trustworthy
	- Secure
		- How is security measured? #card
			- Legally compliant
			- Ethical
			- Authorised
- Who uses ISO 25010 standards? #card
	- Engineers
	- View software as a machine
- Who uses Quality of information standards? #card
	- Accountant
	- View software as a system
- Who uses IT standards? #card
	- Implied quality and security standards
- What three metrics measure performance? #card
	- Time
	- Resource
	- Capacity
- How is functional stability measured? #card
	- Completeness: All needed features exist
	- Correctness: All implemented correctly
	- Appropriate: No unneeded/harmful features
- How is usability measured? #card
	- Recognisable
	- Learnable
	- Operable
	- Protection against user error
	- UI
	- Accessible
- How is reliability measured? #card
	- Availablity (uptime)
		- Mean Time between failures
		- Mean time to fail
		- How is availability measured? #card
			- MTTF: Time taken between repair and next failure
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- MTTD (diagnose): Time taken to know why failure happened
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- MTTR (repair): Time taken after diagnosis to uptime
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- MTBF: MTTD + MTTR + MTTF
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Faultless
		- No internal error
	- Fault tolerant
		- works against outside errors
	- Recoverable
		- Recoverable at faults
- Functional vs non-function requirements #card
	- Functional
		- Directly affect users
	- Non-functional
		- Users may not notice, but business may take risk
- How is security measured? #card
	- Price
		- Cheap vs expensive
	- Liklihood
		- Likely vs unlikely
- How is maintainability assessed? #card
	- Modularity
	- Reusability
	- Analysability
	- Modifiability
	- Testability
- How is flexibility assessed? #card
	- Portability
	- Scalability
	- Installability
	- Replacability
- How is safety assessed? #card
	- Operations are unharmful
	- Risks are known
	- Fail safe
	- Warnings
	- Integration is safe
- How is compatibility assesed? #card
	- Co-existence
	- Interoperable
- What are the characteristic of Quality control? #card
	- Reactive
	- Testing. non standard
- What are the characteristics of quality assurance? #card
	- Preventative
	- Documentation after the fact of the work done
	- Used for certification
	- requires an audit trail
	- Formally used in the waterfall model
		- Agile is difficult to certify
- What are the 5 levels of quality assurance? #card
	- initial
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Managed
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Defined
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Measured
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Optimised
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
- What are Dromley's 5 step process? #card
	- Pick high level quality metric to evaluate
	- List components in the system
	- Identify properties of components
	- Determine how those properties affect quality
	- Evaluate and use risk metric to mitigate
- What are the 5 Solid principles? #card
	- Single responsibility
	- Open Closed
	- Liskov substitution
	- Interface Segregation
	- Dependency Inversion
- Describe the Single Responsibility principle? #card
	- Class must do one thing and one thing well
	- High fan-out would be one class doing two things
	- Low fan out would create a helper class to do the other thing
	- "Gather things that change for the same reason and separate things that change for different reasons"
	- How is responsibility defined in the Single Responsibility principle #card
		- A reason to change the class
		- e.g. Display vs calculate
- How can Single responsibility be broken down? #card
	- Decomposition
	- Separation of concerns
	- Coupling
	- Cohesion
- Describe the Open Close principle #card
	- Old modules and functions are open for extension
	- They are not to be modified
		- Bug fixes are not modifications
- What are some extension options for the Open Closed principle? #card
	- Class inheritance
	- Prefer interfaces over inheritances
- Describe the Liskov substitution principle #card
	- Subclasses should be able to be substitued completely
		- All subclasses should be able to use the base class and callers should assume the same behaviour
		- If you throw an error for a child that is not thrown for the parent, then violation
	- No god classes as it makes it difficult to ensure that there are exact "is a" relationship
- What does it mean to design by contract? #card
	- declare pre and post conditions and assert them
- Contracts vs errors #card
	- Errors can be recoverable and accomodated for
	- Contract violations should not be recoverable
- Describe the Interface Segregation principle #card
	- Clients should not be forced to use interfaces that they do not use
- Describe dependency inversion #card
	- High level modules should not depend on lower level modules
	- Abstraction should not depend on the details
		- Instead, interfaces for the incoming lower classes are used so that the higher levels are guaranteed to work as long as interface is met
- What are design patterns? #card
	- General solutions to problems
	- Reusable best practices and good design
- How does oop differ from functional code? #card
	- OOP: Separated code from data
	- Func: Treats code as data
- What are the 3 design pattern classes? #card
	- Creational
	- Structural
	- Behavioural
- Describe the factory pattern #card
	- If there are many types that need to be created polymorphically (we get parameters that should generate differently)
- Describe the singleton pattern #card
	- There is only one instance of a thing and it's globally accessible
- Are singletons helpful or not? #card
	- Singltons are useful for immutable object states
		- Loggers
		- Debugging
	- They provide consistency and memory
	- But global state is dangerous
- Describe the Adapter pattern #card
	- wrapping around code to be compatible with other new code
- Describe the bridge pattern #card
	- Bridges unify an interface so that users can swop out stuff on the other side of the bridge
- Describe the decorator patter #card
	- Wrapping types in other classes to extend behaviour. like wearing a jacket with a specific toolset in its pocket and changing them when needed
- Describe the facade pattern #card
	- Middle man between services.
- Describe the composite pattern #card
	- Container holds objects that are grouped
- Describe the flyweight pattern #card
	- Everyone points to the same resource of things
- Describe the proxy pattern #card
	- Cache between proxy and slow resource
- Describe the Chain of responsibility pattern #card
	- Pass it on or drop the data
- Describe the command pattern #card
	- Separate commands from their UI
- Describe the Iterator pattern #card
	- Walt through every item in a collection
- Describe the memento pattern #card
	- Freeze state that needs to do something and do that thing from the frozen state class
- Describe the Observer Pattern #card
	- Update subscribers to the state of an object
- Describe the state pattern #card
	- Mutating data into differently defined states
- Describe the template pattern #card
	- Define the skeleton of an algorithm, but not the steps
- #Week3MindPalace
-